.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

Closes _indicate issue number this PR closes_

# Related issues

_Link related issues, documentation, or past PRs if applicable._

# Notes

_Anything reviewers should be aware of when reviewing? Known issues? Future work?_

# PR Review Checklist

Reviewers, copy and paste the following text into your review and answer the questions:

```markdown
1. Are all files under 300 kB (if not, please carefully assess whether it is worth committing them)? **Yes or No**
2. Are all files named according to the appropriate [naming convention](https://github.com/Severson-Group/research-repo-template?tab=readme-ov-file#file-naming), i.e., dash-case, camelCase, snake case? **Yes or No**
3. Do all Markdown files follow the KB's [article template](https://github.com/Severson-Group/KnowledgeBase/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#article-template)? **Yes or No**
4. Do all links work in the material that the PR is adding? **Yes or No**
5. Is the PR configured to close the correct issue(s)? **Yes or No**

Please work on addressing any **No** items.
```

Commit message:

Update todo issue and PR templates
* Update pull_request_template.md

* Add review checklists

* Remove Abstract field

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

Closes _indicate issue number this PR closes_

# Notes

_Anything reviewers should be aware of when reviewing? Other related issues? Known problems? Future work?_

# Self-Review

_In this section, please self-review (answer all questions) on a suitable review checklist prior to requesting review from others. Select a review checklist based on what content is being merged in; see the [Review Checklists section](#review-checklists)._

# Reviewer Instructions

Reviewers, please copy and paste a suitable [review checklist](#review-checklists) into your review and answer all questions.

# Appendix 

This section should be the same for all PRs. Do not edit this section when creating a PR.

## Review Checklists

Checklists maintained by the eLev lab for research repositories include:
- [Report checklist](https://github.com/Severson-Group/KnowledgeBase/blob/main/writing/write-repo-report.md#pr-review-checklist)
- [Publication archive checklist](https://github.com/Severson-Group/KnowledgeBase/blob/main/writing/archive-research-material.md) (select a checklist from the [Approach](https://github.com/Severson-Group/KnowledgeBase/blob/main/writing/archive-research-material.md#approach) that corresponds [to the step](https://github.com/Severson-Group/KnowledgeBase/blob/main/writing/archive-research-material.md#overview) this PR seeks to complete).
- [Standard checklist](https://github.com/Severson-Group/research-repo-template/blob/main/.github/pull_request_template.md) (if none of the above apply).

**Note:** The most up to date list of review checklists can be found in the [research-repo-template](https://github.com/Severson-Group/research-repo-template/blob/main/.github/pull_request_template.md#review-checklists) repository.

### Standard checklist

```markdown
1. Are all files under 300 kB (if not, please carefully assess whether it is worth committing them)? **Yes or No**
2. Are all files named according to the appropriate [naming convention](https://github.com/Severson-Group/research-repo-template?tab=readme-ov-file#file-naming), i.e., dash-case, camelCase, snake case? **Yes or No**
3. Do all Markdown files follow the KB's [article template](https://github.com/Severson-Group/KnowledgeBase/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#article-template)? **Yes or No**
4. Do all links work in the material that the PR is adding? **Yes or No**
5. Is the PR configured to close the correct issue(s)? **Yes or No**

Please work on addressing any **No** items.
```
